DOCSP-45209: Authentication landing + Authentication mechanisms (#127)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/security/auth-mechanisms/kerberos.txt

  the driver uses the default port number (``27017``). Specifying a port number is optional
  when connecting to a MongoDB Atlas cluster.
- ``<authentication_db>``: MongoDB database that contains the user's LDAP credentials.
  If you omit this parameter, the driver uses the default database (``admin``).

To use the code examples on this page, replace these placeholders with your own values.

Using GSSAPI Authentication in Your Application
-----------------------------------------------

To configure the MongoDB server to use Kerberos, see the
:manual:`server Kerberos documentation
</tutorial/control-access-to-mongodb-with-kerberos-authentication/>`.

To use the Kerberos authentication mechanism with the Ruby MongoDB driver,
you must install and load the `mongo_kerberos <https://rubygems.org/gems/mongo_kerberos>`__
library. To do so, add the following lines to your ``Gemfile``:

.. code-block:: ruby

  gem 'mongo', '~> 2'
  gem 'mongo_kerberos', '~> 2'

Then, add the following lines to your application code:

.. code-block:: ruby

  require 'mongo'
  require 'mongo_kerberos'

If using Kerberos authentication with **MRI**, you must establish a Kerberos

> session to the driver. This session is used by the driver to prove the user's identity to

Reviewer: i: passive voice

```suggestion
session to the driver. The driver uses this session to prove the user's identity to
```

the server. You must ensure that the host system is
configured for Kerberos authentication. To learn more about configuring the host system
to use Kerberos, see the `Kerberos documentation

> <https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-latest/doc/admin/install_clients.html>`__

Reviewer: s: this seems like a second consideration, after establishing the kerberos session. maybe there could be a bulleted list of things to do: establish a session and ensure the host is configured correctly

or your operating system documentation for details. Use the `kinit utility
<https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-latest/doc/user/user_commands/kinit.html>`__

> to establish a Kerberos session.

Reviewer: s: this seems related to the previous discussion of sessions

> If using Kerberos authentication with **JRuby**, you can externally establish the Kerberos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Kerberos authentication with **JRuby**, you can externally establish the Kerberos
```

> session to the driver using the process described above for MRI. Alternatively, you can directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
session to the driver by using the process described above for MRI. Alternatively, you can directly
```

provide the password to the driver by using client configuration. You can also provide the

> path to a keytab file by storing the configuration in the ``java.security.auth.login.config`` system property.

Reviewer: q: it says 'you can also provide...' what is this an alternative to?

> path to a keytab file by storing the configuration in the ``java.security.auth.login.config`` system property.
> If using JRuby, you must configure the Java Runtime Environment to use Kerberos. To learn more, see the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
path to a keytab file by storing the configuration in the ``java.security.auth.login.config`` system property.

You must also configure the Java Runtime Environment to use Kerberos. To learn more, see the 
```

`MongoDB Java Driver Kerberos documentation

> <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/4.0/driver/tutorials/authentication/#gssapi>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/4.0/driver/tutorials/authentication/#gssapi>`__
```

do we not have any Java GSSAPI docs on our domain?

for more information.

.. note::

>   Per the server Kerberos documentation, you must specify the FQDN of the host
>   running MongoDB when using Kerberos authentication.

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
   When using Kerberos authentication, you must specify the
   fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the host.
```

Select the :guilabel:`Connection String` or :guilabel:`Client Options` tab to
see the corresponding syntax for connecting to MongoDB with Kerberos authentication:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connection-string

      .. code-block:: ruby

         client = Mongo::Client.new("mongodb://<username>@<hostname>[:<port>]/<authentication_db>?authMechanism=GSSAPI")

   .. tab:: Client Options
      :tabid: mongo-credential

      .. code-block:: ruby
         :emphasize-lines: 1

         client = Mongo::Client.new(['<hostname>[:<port>]'],
                                    auth_mech: :gssapi,
                                    user: 'myapp/appuser@MYREALM')

.. note::

>   If you use a connection string to connect to MongoDB, ensure that you to percent-encode any
>   special characters that appear in the username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you use a connection string to connect to MongoDB, ensure that you percent-encode any
   special characters that appear in the username.
```
